# CRCM6-GEM5_EnergyBalance

This repository is for storing the code I have written for an internship started during the summer of 2021 at Université du Québec à Montréal (UQÀM) under the direction of Dr. Alejandro Di Luca. The internship concerns the evaluation of the Canadian Regional Climate Model 6 - Global Environmental Multiscale 5 (CRCM6-GEM5)'s surface energy balance (SEB).

The CRCM6-GEM5 model is compared with observational data collected by the AmeriFlux (AMF) network. The network is composed of a group of over a hundred weather stations that collects data pertinent to the SEB, such as the incoming and outgoing shortwave and longwave radiation, the sensible heat flux, and the latent heat flux, among many other variables, usually at 30 minute intervals. For more information about the AMF network, please visit : https://ameriflux.lbl.gov/ . For this study, a total of 58 stations located across North America are utilized, with each station containing at least one year's worth of data beween the years 1990 and 2017.

In order to facilitate the comparison between the model and the observations, the AMF data need to be temporally averaged in order to produce 3 hour means from the original 30 minute means. Hence, the temporally averaged AMF data is of the same temporal frequency as the CRCM6-GEM5 simulations. Furthermore, each AMF station must be matched to the closest grid point in the model.

The comparison between the model and the observations is done using two approaches. In the first approach, the three-hourly and monthly quartiles for the CRCM6-GEM5 simulations and the AMF data are compared against each other for each of the previously mentioned SEB variables. In the second approach, the values of the net radiation and the latent heat flux are discretized (binned), with each combination of net radiation and latent heat flux bin producing a regime. The frequency and the mean intensity of the sensible heat flux of each regime are calculated for the AMF observations and for the CRCM6-GEM5 simulations. The frequencies and the intensities of the observational and simulated data are then compared against each other by regime.
